# MV4 (SN: 040731)
---

#### Original Condition
* Not obvious signs of damage or battery leakage
* Someone replaced upper work RAM chip

#### Symptom 1 - WRAM DATA (UPPER)
Booted with diag bios and got

```
WRAM DATA (UPPER)

ADDRESS:   100000
ACTUAL:    FF00
EXPECTED:  0000
```

Actual value is always 0xFF00.  Trying to go to the menu system of the diag bios cases watchdog to trigger and the board resets.

Given this is pointing to the already replaced ram chip, give it a good look over.   
* chip is not on straight
* chip is not centered
* chip has some solder blobs
* chip has some solder stalagmites

However visually it doesn't look like any of these would be causing a problem.  Used multi-meter to check continuity on address/data/OE/WE lines and seemed ok, same goes for logic probing.

Before swapping the chip decided to reflow the chip to get rid of the solder blobs stalagmites.  Tested again and ALL TESTS PASSED.  Perhaps one of the pins was loose and me putting the probes on it was enough get a connection and make it look good?

I still ended up pulling the chip so I could put it back on straight and centered.

Re-tested, ALL TESTS PASSED (including z80 tests on all slots)

#### Symptom 2 - MEMCARD DATA
My MV-IC board, memcard(s) and cables are known good.  Doing memory card tests with a 16k 8bit card I get

```
MEMCARD DATA

ADDRESS:   800000
ACTUAL:    00AA
EXPECTED:  0000
```

First thing to check is the condition of the IDC connectors looking for corrosion on the pins and then to use a multi-meter to test continuity across cable between the IDC connector on the cpu and the MV-IC board.  These tested good for me.

One of my reproduction memory cards has the memory chip exposed so I used logic probe it.  Nothing seemed weird.  OE/CE/WE pins all pulsed when the tests ran.

The memory card data lines use the 2x 74HC245s @ A7/A8
The memory card address lines use the 3x 74HCT244s @ A9-A11

Logic probed the 74HCT245's and they seemed ok.  Wasn't sure at this point if the issue was data or address.  Tried piggybacking both of these with other 74HC245's and still got the same faults.

The 74HCT244's are line buffers/drivers and their enabled pin is tied to ground, so their input and outputs should always match.  I used 2x logic probes to listen to the pulsing of each IO channel to confirm they matched.  Ended up finding one of the IO channels on the 74HCT244 @ A10 didn't match.  The input was pulsing but the output seems to be mostly high, but not always.

Did a piggyback of a 74HCT244 on top of that suspect 74HCT244 and memory card tests passed.  Replaced that bad 74HCT244, issue is now fully resolved.
