# MV4FS (SN: 512561)
---
#### Original Condition
* HC32 @ H9: swapped with an 74LS32
* AS245 @ F10: Bodge wire connecting pin 19 to ground
   * Found burnt out trace under the the AS245, which the bodge must be fixing
* Both Backup RAMs swapped with Toshiba chips, not on straight, solder blobs
* Board is pretty dirty
* No battery leakage/damage
* One of the pin on the cpu/slot board interconnect is broken off
   * Its just one of the many ground pins, so ignoring
* Right most MV-IC IDC connector plastic housing is damaged, exposing some pins

#### Symptom 1 - BRAM DATA (UPPER)
Booted with diag bios and got

```
BRAM DATA (UPPER)

ADDRESS  D0xxxx
ACTUAL     0000
EXPECTED   xx00
```
Values for xx were inconsistent, but was always the upper BRAM chip.  Booted directly to the menu and tested all the other ram chips, no issues with those.

Pulled both BRAM chips since they were previously swapped and not aligned/soldered very well.  Confirmed pads were in good condition and tested continuity:

* Address lines should have continuity between the BRAM/WRAM
* Lower BRAM/WRAM data lines should have continuity
* Upper BRAM/WRAM data lines should have continuity

Could also test continuity of the data/address lines to the CPU, but is easier to the WRAM since it tested good and has the same pin out. Didn't test continuity on WE/OE lines as diag bios should have complained about those before the data error.

Tested both pulled BRAM chips with external ram tester.  One failed, one passed.  To keep things consistent, used 2 same model ram chips from my parts bin to replace the BRAMs.  Saved the old working Toshiba ram chip to my parts bin.

Retest the board, boots to ALL TESTS PASSED (including z80 tests on all slots)

#### Other Fixes
* Revert the 74LS32 @ H9 back to a 74HC32
* Redid the bodge wire on AS245 @ F10. Ran the wire from pin 19 to the ground pin on the bypass cap that was about 1 cm away.
