# MV4FT (SN: 351485)
---
#### Original Condition
* No obvious signs of physical damage to board
* Board is pretty dirty
* Most of the surface mount ICs on the CPU board were likely re-flowed (flux residue)
* No battery leakage/damage

#### Symptom 1 - Fast Click-of-Death
Upon turning on the board with the diag bios, getting fast click of death.

Logic probed around the board (bios/ram) to see what kinda of activity is going on.  Found that the OE/WE pins on the work/backup ram were dead.

These signals comes from the [NEO-C1](https://wiki.neogeodev.org/index.php?title=NEO-C1). Re-examine the board, still see nothing obvious that would point to cut traces.  The NEO-C1 chip legs and pads were pretty dull/oxidized and appears someone might have tried replacing it.  Found that a bunch of its pins were not even soldered down.

Pull the NEO-C1 so I could examine/cleanup the pads.  Saw no issue with pads, re-tinned them.  Given the not great state of the NEO-C1, decided to replace it with one from a parts board.

Retest the board, boots to ALL TESTS PASSED (including z80 tests on all slots)

#### Symptom 2 - Player 2 UP stuck in pressed state
Both diag bios and unibios show that player 2's UP button is stuck in a pressed.

Button inputs are also handled by NEO-C1, player 2's UP is pin 60.  Double checked my soldering on the replacement NEO-C1, found no issues.  Logic probed pin/pad 60, both were dead.  Traced the pin to one of the [CRE401](https://wiki.neogeodev.org/index.php?title=CRE401)'s to the right of the player 2's joystick port.  The pin on the CRE401 for UP was also dead.  The CRE401 act as pull-up resistors and should have been feeding 5V to the pin.

Swapped the CRE401 with one from a parts board, fixed the issue
